README.md, before:

# Noisebridge-donate

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/noisebridge/donate.noisebridge.net/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/noisebridge/donate.noisebridge.net/tree/master)

A really simple rails application to accept credit card donations for [Noisebridge](https://noisebridge.net)

## Installation

### Requirements

  * PostgreSQL
  * Ruby 2.3.0
  * foreman `gem install foreman`

If you have `rbenv` and `ruby-build` installed you should be able to do the following
```bash
rbenv install
gem install bundler
rbenv rehash
bundle install
```

### Running with secrets
The secrets for the development environment are kept encrypted in the `.env` file. `git-crypt` will unlock them.

To run the rails server locally with the secrets loaded use `foreman start web`

### Running without secrets
To run the rails server locally without the secrets simply `mv .env .env.foo`
and run as normally `foreman start web`. Be mindful not to commit this move to
git.

### Databases

This setup assumes that you have a PostgreSQL user `noisebridge` locally who is the owner of `noisebridge_donate_development` and `noisebridge_donate_test` databases.

Commit message:

Add notice to README about encrypted .env file
Running with the .env file encrypted causes dotenv to throw exceptions
as it attempts to parse what it expects to be an ASCII file, but instead
is a blob of encrypted data.

README.md, after:

# Noisebridge-donate

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/noisebridge/donate.noisebridge.net/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/noisebridge/donate.noisebridge.net/tree/master)

A really simple rails application to accept credit card donations for [Noisebridge](https://noisebridge.net)

## Installation

### Requirements

  * PostgreSQL
  * Ruby 2.3.0
  * foreman `gem install foreman`

If you have `rbenv` and `ruby-build` installed you should be able to do the following
```bash
rbenv install
gem install bundler
rbenv rehash
bundle install
```

### Running with secrets
The secrets for the development environment are kept encrypted in the `.env` file. `git-crypt` will unlock them.

**NB: You must be aded to the list of secrets users before you can decrypt the .env file**

If you don't have access to the decrypted `.env` file locally you'll likely see
an error like so when you attempt to attempt to run the Rails console or server
locally. 
```
/home/patrickod/.rbenv/versions/2.3.0/lib/ruby/gems/2.3.0/gems/dotenv-2.1.1/lib/dotenv/parser.rb:44:in `split': invalid byte sequence in UTF-8 (ArgumentError)
```

This is because `dotenv` is attempting to parse a non-ASCII file (the
encrypted blob). Simply `rm .env` to remove the local copy. If you want to run
with local development Stripe API credentials for the Noisebridge account ask
@patrickod to add you to the list of PGP keys that can decrypt the `.env` file.


#### 

To run the rails server locally with the secrets loaded use `foreman start web`

### Running without secrets
To run the rails server locally without the secrets simply `mv .env .env.foo`
and run as normally `foreman start web`. Be mindful not to commit this move to
git.

### Databases

This setup assumes that you have a PostgreSQL user `noisebridge` locally who is the owner of `noisebridge_donate_development` and `noisebridge_donate_test` databases.
